So welcome again to this second session of Sari stories. And I'm delighted tonight that we've got Prerna Richard and Luis Garrido who are going to be telling us their sharing their stories with us and we're going to start with Prerna.
And so Prerna would you like me to open the first picture?
Not yet. No, thank you. Yes. Jai Shri Mataji everyone. And so the stories for the Sari's with Shri Mataji is really special, has a special place in my heart. Because I met Shri Mataji when I was 14 years old. And growing up in India, being 14, I had never worn a Sari.
Till I met Shri Mataji. And so I wanted to start the stories because there was many things that happened in our time together with Shri Mataji that the Sari's kept coming up. So the very first time I met Shri Mataji was in August of 79.
And in those days, Shri Mataji used to go from London to Delhi, those were the mostly the trips that she would have. And it was a public program that we had in Delhi. And my whole family, and all of us went together for the public program.
And at the end of the public program, after we had gone on the stage to see Shri Mataji, she invited us to come to her house the next day. And so she said, you know, find out the address and you all should come to my daughter's house, Sadhana, and you should all come and see me tomorrow morning.
And when we got to her house, to Sadhana Diti's house, Shri Mataji was there. And I'm not exactly sure how it happened. But somehow, Sadhana Diti asked me and my sister, if we had ever worn a Sari. And we both looked at her and we said, No, we'd never worn a Sari.
And so she took out Shri Mataji's saris. And she started wrapping them around us. And she was sitting on a chair, watching her dress us like dolls. And she was like turning us around and putting the pleats and she was enjoying the show. And it was one of Shri Mataji's saris that she had put on us. And it just felt so joyful. And it felt so
being enveloped with this feeling of just love. I can't explain it in any other way. I don't think I knew about vibrations then I don't think I knew all of the rest of it connected. But I remember that feeling of just being a big hug, like a big love that wrapped around us. So yeah, that was the very first time that I'd worn a Sari and it was Shri Mataji's.
Very special day. It's very vivid in my memory, even now. And the second story, so now we can put the picture up of that dress. Caroline, if that's okay with you. So we got married.
I got married in 84. I married Alan. We were married in 84. And back then we were living in Delhi and the Subrajang ashram, the very first ashram in Delhi, was a very small ashram compared to the Noida ashram. And Shri Mataji was coming there.
It was 84 in March after the India tour had finished and it was after her birthday puja and she came to Delhi and everybody was asking, can everybody give saris so that we can make a pathway for Shri Mataji to walk from the door to the stage.
And I had just recently got married. So I had had a whole bunch of new saris, which actually what happened was when we were on the India tour, because we got married in Borde, in Nasik, Shri Mataji had asked my sister and me, Nambhuta and me, to show her the saris that our mom had bought for us.
And I remember Shri Mataji was sitting on her bed in Nasik and she wanted to see all the saris that our mom had bought for us. And every time we would show her a sari, she would touch it and she would feel it and she would make a comment of how pretty it was or the work was and this and this.
And so it was very beautiful that we had got to share some of our new saris as newly married girls with Shri Mataji. So when she came to Delhi, they were asking for saris to decorate the pathway.
And I was feeling a little bit hesitant because I was like, oh, we're going to put them on the ground. You know, people are going to walk on it. I don't want to ruin these new saris.
But then I said, okay, it's okay. Shri Mataji's feet are going to be on it. I should find a sari and I will also contribute. So it was this red silk sari and it was a plain red silk sari. It had no design, no nothing. It was just very soft Chinese silk, just plain red.
And I gave that to put on the pathway from the door to the stage. And then Shri Mataji walked on it and people had offered flowers like we always do, you know, so there was flowers on the sari.
And what happened was after Shri Mataji walked, the flowers had got pressed into the sari and the juices of the flowers had come. And afterwards, when I picked up the sari, it was full of stains.
And it was covered with these marks from the flowers. And I don't think I could wear it again because it was just all marks everywhere. And I was feeling a little bit bad. But then again, Shri Mataji had walked on it. So it meant something so special and it was so dear.
And so I held on to it for the longest time. And then finally, I think just a few years ago, I've held it on for all these years. I mean, this year, it was 40 years we were married. So I held on to the sari all these years.
And then recently I made it into a silvar kameez. And this is the shirt. And then the other piece I actually took and we by then we'd had granddaughters. And so we converted this into a tiny, tiny baby dress.
Just because it is so special, because Shri Mataji walked on it and it still feels so cool. I'm touching it right now and it just feels so cool.
So, you know, something to live on and tell the grandchildren about the day that the goddesses walked on this piece of material. It just means something.
And then we had, I had moved to London, we were in Brompton Square, staying with Shri Mataji. And that's the next one, Caroline, you can show the picture of the next one. So when we got to Brompton Square, one day, Shri Mataji said to me, this white sari, the ones that she used to wear for the public programs, if you remember, they were plain white, and they were so
silky material, and they were just plain, plain white. And so she asked me if I could put a fall on it at the bottom. And I had never done that. I had no idea how to sew a fall onto a very silky, slippery sari. And I remember sitting in Brompton Square with a lamp shade, like right, the light right there and feeling so angry.
And so nervous that I had to sew this fall on because I didn't want to make a mistake and anything would show up because this material was so silky and so soft and slippery. And it was it was I prayed the whole time I was just praying please Shri Mataji, how can I do this?
And I did this. And she was she asked you a so gracious and so kind and she was like, Oh, this is amazing. You did a great job this and all that. And after that, it became a thing that I was so grateful for. And I was so grateful for the fact that I was able to do this.
And I did this. And she was, she asked you a so gracious and so kind and she was like, Oh, this is amazing. You did a great job this and all that. And after that, it became a thing that she would give me her public program saris to iron. And so I would get that opportunity to iron them. And this is the sari that she must be gifted me after I did the fall for her, which in a fact, she did it because I don't didn't want to make a mistake.
And I didn't know how to do that. I'd never done that. And so she was giving me this. It was a Georgia sari printed all over I still have it. It has faded in many places, but I still hold on to it because she gifted it to me as a thank you for putting the fall in ironing, which was so kind of her and so sweet.
And so that became kind of a nice task that somehow she would allow me to iron her public program saris in Brompton Square. There was many of those occasions. And I was so joyful and such a beautiful thing. And then the last story
is the one the last sari. This was in LA, and Srimathji was staying in LA. I want to say it was either 2003 or 2004 different centres in America, different collectives would go to LA to have an opportunity to take care of, I mean, take care of the people who are
in the care, which is a really strange word. We don't take care of Srimathji, she takes care of us, but the opportunity to be there of service and just to offer whatever we could and to do to help to contribute. And Texas had a chance for one of the weeks and we were there.
And this was a sari that was Srimathji's and Sadhna Didi gave it to me and said that, you know, this is Srimathji's used sari and she would like for you to have it to use because when she gave it to me, she said she would like for you to have it. And I said, to keep thank you so much.
And she said, no, no, no, she wants you to wear it. I said, wear it? Like wear Srimathji's sari. I was a little bit surprised. And Srimathji was like, you know, she was like, no, no, she wants you to wear it. And so I have worn it only a couple of times because I still feel very hesitant to wear something that Srimathji wore because I'd rather just keep it.
But I will tell you, it has so much vibrations and it brings so much comfort. And I have, you know, in times you go through tough times and tough times in life, I have held this just to my chest and just on the heart. And it just soothes and comforts and builds all the vibrations and all the cells and you can feel her presence.
And I'm sure many of you have experienced that when Srimathji's given something. So, you know, just little stories that meant a lot. And thank you for the opportunity to share them with you all.
Thank you, Prerana. That was beautiful.
So I'm just going to, I have you pinned for the video recording, so I'm just going to unpin you. I'll close your video now and ask Lewis to join us. So Lewis, I think there you are. Lovely. Let me just pin you.
Excellent.
Thank you. Srimathji.
Would you like to show some photos, Caroline?
Sure, I'm at your command. So what would you like me to show?
Srimathji at the wedding of Maria Melea and Arno.
There's two there.
Yes, that's one of them. So this is Maria Melea and Arno's wedding, which took place in Portugal 1980. And I think there's a lot one could say about this, sorry, but the thing that I find very interesting is that this is the color of the Portuguese flag.
So the Portuguese flag is red and green, but this is the exact correct green of the flag.
And I don't think this is a coincidence that Srimathji wore the color of the Portuguese flag for us, because in everything mother does, she's trying to open our hearts and make us feel well in her presence.
So this was, I think, a beautiful gesture of Srimathji to choose that color.
If you see on the photo also of the wedding of Maria Melea, can you see another one is called the Srimathji in Sintra? It's the same thing.
I suppose you are looking for the other photo. It says Srimathji in Sintra.
Yeah, I'm just looking for it. I've got it, Louis.
It's the same wedding of Maria Melea. And so here we can see again the green, you know, on the sorry blouse. It's exactly the green of the Portuguese flag.
I don't think it's a coincidence because mother came to Portugal.
So now if you could move to a photograph that is entitled Srimathji in Lisbon.
So this is again Srimathji in Lisbon, Portugal.
And here this is Srimathji is about to go. I believe she's about to go to the airport here.
In fact, I'm the person there on the left hand side with the beard. That's me very thin in those days.
I had just, that was the beginning of Sahaja Yoga for me.
There's the dog. In fact, this is a dog I sometimes mention in the stories of the dog is there too next to me.
And Srimathji is wearing a sari that is yellow here.
And this is again quite interesting for Portugal because in Portugal we say we are the country of the sun and Srimathji is wearing the color of the sun is totally yellow that sari.
But then she also has a kind of a purple color on the blouse and on the other part of the sari.
And this is a color that everybody in Portugal will say this is the color of Christ because during the Easter processions usually the statues of Christ are dressed in that color.
I think it's because in the Bible it says that during the when Christ went on trial, he was sent to Herod and Herod was the king of the Jews in those days in the province of Judea.
And Herod decided to send Christ back to Pontius Pilatus to be tried.
But he also said, you know, let's put a tunic or a cloth of this purple color on Christ.
This was in a sense to mock Christ because as if Christ is in a sense people think he's the king of the Jews.
So if he thinks that is the king of the Jews, let him wear the purple which is the color reserved for royalty.
This was to mock Christ.
But in fact all the painters in painters and artistic tradition, they consider that, you know, Christ is indeed the king of the kings is the king of all kings.
So it deserves to wear that color purple purple.
And that's usually the color that is used for Christ during Easter during the processions around the statues of Christ.
They use this color.
So this color is very important because Portugal is a Catholic country and everybody knows about Christ and the Easter processions.
And the yellow sun that mother is wearing, but as a special meaning meaning in Portugal because we say we are the country of the sun.
That's what everybody says. The sun is, you know, is the thing about Portugal.
And there was some apparition of the Virgin Mary in Portugal and Sri Mataji confirmed that those apparitions are genuine.
When mother came again to Portugal for Diwali puja in Portugal, she said yes, those apparitions of the Virgin Mary, they were genuine.
That was indeed Sri Mahalakshmi who appeared there and gave those miracles.
And one of the miracles that the Virgin Mary or the Sri Mahalakshmi gave is that she made the sun dance in the sky because people had asked for a sign to believe.
And she did that great miracle and many of the miracles that the Virgin did on that occasion.
But this was the most astonishing miracle. She made the sun dance in the sky.
So when mother is dressed, you know, with this yellow and this purple, this has a great symbolic meaning for Portugal.
So we were just about to, we're taking all the suitcases out of that.
That photograph was taken at the place where she was staying in Portugal at that time when she came in 1982.
I was very new to Sathas then and we were taking the suitcases of that gentleman who was traveling with mother, Dr. Rustam.
We were taking those suitcases to the car to take mother to the airport. We were taking Sri Mataji's suitcases as well to the car to take mother to the airport.
And suddenly mother said, bring my suitcases back, you know.
So we were quite agitated about this rush for going to the airport.
And we brought Sri Mataji's suitcases back to the house. She said, put them on this table.
And then she made an arrangement of saris for, and then she said, look, I promised this Sahaja Yogi there, one of them, that I was going to give him an art lesson, you know.
And, you know, mother always keeps the promises. So she said, let's do the art lesson now.
And she used the saris to give an art lesson.
At the time, because I was very new, the main thing on my mind is who is Sri Mataji? Who is this lady Sri Mataji?
Because I had such incredible experience when she gave me self-realization and after and at the meetings,
you know, I had already had an opportunity to rub mother's feet. She allowed me to do that, you know.
So the question really burning in my heart was who is this lady Sri Mataji?
And I asked the Sahaja Yogis, you know, do you think she's the Virgin Mary or do you think she's Christ or like Christ, you know.
But they would not answer the question. They would say, you know, there's a smile and you could feel the joy asking the question, but they just wouldn't answer me.
Then I asked that Dr. Rustam was a great expert in Sahaja Yoga and Sanskrit and mantras.
I asked him, you know, who is this lady? Is she the Virgin Mary or something?
He said, well, you know, that's something you have to discover yourself, you know, because I wanted an answer to this question before mother goes back to London, you know, a kind of an official answer, you know.
But no, this is something you have to answer yourself.
So when mother started showing her saris, this was the question in my heart.
Sometimes I was hardly listening to what mother was saying, only partly. In my mind was who is this lady? You know, is she really, you know, why don't they tell me, you know.
But while mother was showing the saris, I started feeling that this is the type of a dress for a goddess, really.
This is like the dress for the Virgin Mary, really, those silk saris, you know, because the Virgin Mary, when they describe what was her dress, you know, people have those visions of the Virgin Mary in Fatima, in other places.
And what is the dress of the Virgin Mary? And this like this saris is something that the lady, the Virgin Mary is totally covered in silk, you know, or in the color is white or maybe pearl, pearl color.
Sometimes they describe as having many, many, many colors as well, which is probably the visions of the chakras.
So and seeing those saris of mother, you know, with all the colors and, you know, the silk white pearl, pearl color and white color, you know, it was really, you know, my heart was telling me this really is the goddess, really.
And it's not a doubt, it's me wanting some confirmation, but the saris were really speaking to me in that sense of this is the type of a dress for a goddess, really. Only a goddess can dress like this.
And Sri Mataji told us to look at the saris and now tell us, all of us, she was addressing that Sahaja Yogi wanted to be a professional artist.
She was addressing it mainly, but she told us, you know, look at the saris and tell me, and choose one that you like the most or maybe two, you know, so we all made our decision.
And then mother asked us one by one, she asked us, what's your favorite sari? You know, so mother was also finding out about our, you know, our, our feelings about the colors, really how we did react to these things.
Because see mother likes to somehow also use the saris to please people so that we enjoyed meeting her the most.
For instance, there was a Sahaja Yogini from France, you met, and she told us that story that mother was having a reception of French ladies, very important ladies, you know, coming to her house, diplomatic meeting, you know.
And so she asked his French Sahaja Yogini, come and see me at Brompton square where mother lives and help me choose a sari, you know, whichever sari would please the French ladies the most.
So they feel at home, they feel I'm like them, I'm one of them, you know, it's not a strange environment, you know, it's so mother wanted to wear a sari that the French ladies would like the most, you know.
So I think mother did the same for us in Portugal in the choice of saris that she chose, just like she did to those French ladies.
And so mother was still talking about the saris and having found out which ones you like and which ones you don't.
Then she started directing our attention to the ones who didn't choose, most of us didn't choose a certain, a few saris that we know about that shows and mother went for those, you know, and started explaining the beauty of those patterns,
the beauty of the colors and telling that Sahaja Yogi that the patterns in the saris, some of them are very ideal patterns for using in ceramics, for instance, because they have a repetitive pattern and a certain rhythm.
And that would be something ideal for ceramics and mother was also telling him to put attention to the mother earth and learn about ceramics and work with the clay and that would awaken his creativity with the wake and awaken and also the innocence and the clearing of the Muladhara chakra.
And some of those motives in the Indian saris were created by people who are simple and work with the land.
So they have a very strong connection with the land, with the motherland, with the mother nature.
And the mother nature gave a lot of the inspiration for the patterns that we find in the saris, especially those that were created by people who live in the villages.
And then later on other artists create, you know, and more sophisticated patterns, but every area of India has a different style of sari, but the nature is also different in different parts of India.
So there was a very strong relationship between the sari and the mother nature and the mother nature is something key for awake, to awake the creativity and the artistic spontaneity.
It was an incredible lesson mother gave to all of us on that occasion.
But my attention was really seeing those dresses and feeling this really is like the dresses for the goddess.
At another occasion, this was a lot later at Prompton Square, Srimataji was going through a box of jewelry to give, in fact, again, to give a lesson about jewelry to a certain size yogi who was learning about jewelry.
And she used their own jewelry to give that art lesson.
And I was looking at the jewelry and mother said, Louis, by the way, do you happen to know why is it that Indian ladies wear so much jewelry?
You know, well, I don't, I have no idea, you know, and mother said, that's because the goddess used to wear a lot of jewelry.
You can see that when you read the mantras, you know, and the goddess always has to wear a sari.
That's, you know, that's something it has to be like that.
And in India, all the ladies learn from their mothers that they have to also wear a lot of jewelry with the sari because the goddess also did.
So they have to follow the style of the goddess because they are devotees of the goddess.
So mother had a tremendous respect for the sari really and for these traditions, so much so that on one occasion we all came to a puja.
I think it was Birmingham was it?
Birmingham, yes.
And suddenly the puja was about to start.
We were all dressed in our pajama quarters.
The ladies were dressed in their saris.
Everything was ready. Mother was sitting on the stage and then mother asks, you know, do you have a sari for the puja?
And the leader said, well, as a matter of fact, the person bringing the sari got detained is a problem.
And mother said, okay, that's no problem.
But if there's no puja, if there's no sari, no puja.
It's as simple as that.
So why don't we do the puja the next day?
This was a big shock because we were all dressed and ready and some people don't like a change of plan.
But mother said, look, you know, don't be upset for the change of plan because this is a lot of fun.
It's nice to have a change of plan.
And now I'm going to enjoy myself, mother said.
And she went to her handbag, got her glasses.
And now I'm going to see how the ladies look so beautiful in their saris, you know,
and how the gentlemen also are looking so nice in their silks and pijama quarters and all that, you know.
And so they changed the lighting, you know, instead of the light being towards Shri Mataji on the stage to the yogi.
So mother could see the sari yogis now.
And she said she was really enjoying seeing all the ladies in their saris, how beautiful they look, you know.
So mother is always giving compliments to the Indian ladies or the size of the Guinness for wearing the saris.
She's very pleased when they do.
But as she said, you see, no sari, you know, if there's no sari, you cannot have a puja.
These are very important traditions.
There was another puja this time.
It was in, where?
Chelsea, I don't know.
I think it was in Hampstead.
Hampstead, wasn't it?
Can't remember the year, maybe 1985, I think.
And during the puja, she said, now the ladies who have never done a puja to me, they can come to the stage and do it.
And two ladies came, you know, dressed in jeans.
They were wearing jeans, you know, they're not wearing a sari.
And mother said, that's not possible, you know.
Someone should have given them saris or taught them how to wear a sari.
It's not hard to find a sari in England, you know, because there are so many people from India, in England, you know.
And someone was saying, really in future, make sure you teach all the new people.
If they come to a puja, they should, the ladies especially, they must wear a sari.
And the gentleman also must wear this Indian Curtis, you know.
And strangely enough, at this one set of tours, I was there with Carol and she said, now on the way back, you know, back to London, back to your countries,
especially the English going on the British Airways, that's their line used to be called the British Airways.
Make sure you wear your saris and your duties.
Mother said, wear your duties, wear your saris, wear your pajama curtis and don't forget to wear also the red dot on the forehead, you know, the tikka.
So we did that because mother told us to do.
And then when you always, she also said, and when you go to work or when you go shopping, you know,
don't be afraid to wear the saris and to wear the pajama curtis, you know, just enjoy and wear the red dot on the forehead as well.
So we did.
As we arrived in London, you know, there was some saja yogis there to collect us, you know,
and they saw us coming of our flight all dressed up like that and they said, oh my God, have you gone mad or what?
You know, this is not allowed because are you behaving like the Hare Krishna people or what?
You know, this is not to be done, you know, but they didn't know.
Well, mother told us to do that, you know, not just today, but whenever we want.
And some people were saying, oh my goodness, this is the end of Sahaja Yoga now.
This will definitely be the end of Sahaja Yoga.
But Sahaja Yoga did not die really.
Some of us wore our whites, you know, I remember once going out shopping and I was going in my whites, you know,
and someone came to talk to me, oh, you must be a baker because I was dressed completely in white with a little white hat, you know, and the red dot.
And they said, you must be a baker, you know, I'm sorry.
I mean, I'm not a baker, but I have a photograph of this lady Shrimant.
We talked about Sahaja and we laughed a lot, you know, you know, it's a really strange thing to be confused with the bakers because all in white, you know, those whites, you know,
Caro also went to for a job interview wearing a sari, you know, she didn't get the job, but she knew she wasn't going to get the job in any case.
She was not qualified for that job.
She was going just for practice interview to practice for another interview where she thought she had a better chance, you know, but she even went for a job interview wearing a sari.
So many Sahaja Yogis did that.
Nothing happened really.
There was no problem.
You know, people are not afraid of the saris, you know, there were occasions where Caro went to, we went to the airport because mother was coming or going.
And on those on a few occasions, Caro decided to wear a sari to go and see Maduretti Airport and some.
Some English Sahaja Yoginis were telling telling her, you know, if she don't currently, you know, you must be a little bit crazy to come dressed in a sari because this is an airport.
And as you can see, no one else is doing that except maybe one or two Indian Sahaja Yoginis who lived in England.
So, you know, that's really are you not worried that mother might tell you off or something and kind of felt, no, I don't see why, you know, and the fact the mother was very pleased that she came dressed in a sari and spoke to her, you know, and everything went beautifully.
Mother was not at all displeased on the contrary.
And she did that a few more times and still other people who didn't know came to tell her, Caro, are you going bonkers or what?
Coming dressed with a sari.
This is not the push.
Are you getting confused?
This is the airport, you know, and she did a few times really.
So there was a certain fear of this type of clothes, you know, but there's something very special.
Mother kept explaining these things to everybody.
So one day I came all the way from Portugal, especially to meet Shri Mataji.
And I had been in London maybe about three weeks, I think, waiting for a chance to see mother really if there's a chance, if mother gives a public program or a push or an invitation of some kind, I was staying staying at maybe mother might come to the ashram at Chelsea Road, you know, this was 1983.
So I was waiting for a chance and then an invitation came mother is going to see a sari fashion show, you know, everybody's welcome, you know, so to see a, you know, a show of saris, you know, where the some ladies come from India, and they know how to model the saris and display the saris and show them and mother went to see that and told us invited everybody come and see the message came rather late.
When you got the message, so you knew we cannot arrive on time. It's impossible. Although you're running all the way to the tube and after the tube, you were running all over the place trying to reach the place as early as possible.
We were late, really.
So when I arrived there at that center, it was a big exhibition about the products that I exported from India and the sari is a very important export from India, of course, all over the world.
And so we couldn't find mother anywhere and you were running around that place with three different floors, you know, and we just couldn't find mother anyway.
And in the end mother appeared that long after a long time and by then you were exhausted.
And we asked mother, where were you? I didn't ask another sari yogi was with me.
Where were you? We couldn't find you anywhere. Mother says, where else could I be? Watching the saris fashion show, there's really nothing else to see here.
This is the most important thing. Make sure you don't miss seeing this because these ladies are so beautiful.
We're modeling the saris so beautiful, so innocent, so sweet, so elegant, so dignified.
What a beautiful thing you really should see this, you know, don't miss it because there was a show on the hour, every hour another show starts, you know.
So at all times mother was showing tremendous respect for the saris and she herself enjoyed seeing people wearing saris also.
And I've noticed that all saris yoginis are quite enthusiastic about seeing mother dressed in the sari, how well mother looks.
Sometimes we are watching a video at home, me and Carl and Carl said, can you rewind the beginning?
She wants to see mother entering on the stage, wearing a beautiful sari. Sometimes it's just a white sari even.
And oh, how beautiful. Can you rewind again? I want to see mother coming, you know, and mother comes dressed in that sari.
It's something, it's like a vision of a God that's coming onto the stage. Everybody feels that.
So saja yoginis are very enthusiastic about mother and her saris, but mother is also appreciative of when the saja yoginis wear the saris.
So on the Indian tour, we were there, you know, to get married again. Mother had already arranged our marriage and now we're going to get married in England first.
And now mother told us to come to India to get a sahaja marriage as well.
And then the message came mother is going to select the saris for the brides, you know, so gentlemen, please make sure you come, you know, and bring your wallets, you know, so it's your chance to buy the sari for your bride.
You know, so everybody came to see mother buying the saris or choosing the saris for the brides.
And the mother being such an expert on the saris, you know, there was a whole truck full of saris, you know, someone drove a full truck full of saris.
It was thousands of saris there to choose from.
And because mother is such an expert, mother went through the whole consignment of saris at fast speed, you know, fast, fast, fast, because she just knows, she doesn't even have to touch it.
She knows immediately what is a good sari, what's not a good sari and sometimes she would approve a sari.
Most of them should reject and then she would touch it and see it and then check the price.
If the price was not right, she would reject the sari straight away.
So mother was careful to keep save our money as well, you know, so what took care and attention mother put into those saris and what expertise, how she could go through.
Thousands of saris at such speed and then she created, it's quite complicated.
She had several piles of saris she approved for the brides.
There were three piles of, you know, lower price, medium price and more expensive.
Then there was a pile of saris for people who want to buy a really expensive sari to take home for their mothers or for their aunt.
So it's a very, very special gift.
Then there were other piles of saris for daily use during the tour, you know, so simple, you know, and then another pile of saris for going to pushes or going to programs during the tour for those who need.
So what a complex thing, mother was dealing with so many piles of saris, but she's a top expert.
She knew more about it than the man was selling the saris, you know, it was incredible.
Let's see. Oh, yes. One day at mother's house, I happened to be the only saja yogi there and another one.
So there was two of us and that day mother had to go to a very important diplomatic conference and mother had a domestic assistant who was a man, really a young man like us, our same age as us, but it's a man really.
And he was in charge of ironing mother's saris, you know, because he was doing all the domestic assistance and cooking as well.
And we had seen him ironing mother's saris sometimes, you know, because we were dead on the basement sometimes and that's the place where he used to do it.
So we had seen him doing, but we didn't know how to iron a sari, but that day was ill, you know, so mother looked at us and the time was ticking now, so she'd be coming at any moment, you know, to pick her up with the limousine to that special, very special event, you know.
And so mother looked at us and said, can you iron me a sari? You said, of course, mother, no problem. You know, full of confidence.
The problem is that none of us have ever ironed the saris. And this was a very special sari for a very important event, you know, in the evening.
So we knew this is quite a rather very special sari, very expensive as well.
It would be a big shame if you burn this sari or do a really bad job and put wrinkles on the sari and spoil the whole thing, you know.
But we asked mother to help, although mother wasn't there. She was upstairs in the rooms and the sari got ironed, you know, and on this occasion, we really, you know, got to see the sari.
And in great detail and the patterns and everything, quite very interesting, you know, usually we don't notice in such great detail, but ironing the sari gave that experience.
But we noticed we were really getting thoughtless while ironing the sari. It was a special experience, you know, something I only did once in my life, but it felt special really to pass the test because there was a good chance we burn the sari or make a mess of it.
But everything went well. Mother was guiding us and helping us. And then mother wore the sari.
And we may not notice so much when mother is wearing a sari, you know, because we are talking to her and we forget to look at the sari even sometimes.
But on that occasion, we really saw the sari, you know, how amazing mother looked in that special sari for going out for a special diplomatic conference.
And my wife, Carol, she used to complain sometimes when I come, having seen mother, you know, then she wants to know everything mother said or what happened, what people are doing and saying.
And I used to try and remember everything mother said and people said and what was happening to tell her everything in great detail.
Next day, she would ask me to tell the same story again and the next day and the next day.
This actually helps me to remember things sometimes. But the first thing Carol always asked me is what was the color of the sari, you know, mother was wearing it.
Oh, I don't know. I didn't see. What a disaster. I forgot to see the color of the sari mother was wearing.
And Carol used to be, oh my God, you didn't see the color of the sari, but you know, don't do this to me, please. Next time, at least know that at least tell me the color of the sari, you know, minimum, if not a bit more detail, you know.
All right. So that's the one time I was able to describe the sari very in great detail because we are in that sari and we saw mother wearing it straight away.
So we could not fail to notice that. So that was an interesting event, but a lot happened in that event because then when mother ultimately, you know, mother went down the steps, you know, and this mother was going down the steps wearing that sari.
I got the kind of a vision, you know, that mother was gliding on a cloud, you know, like a divine, you know, which she is of course, but usually you see mother more as a human person, you know, but she seemed to be gliding on a cloud going down the stairs, going into the car.
And that was an incredible vision, you know, a special moment that still today I remember because usually we don't get this type of feeling, you know, it's, you know, we're in the present, there's no vision is that's what it is.
But the whole sari event seemed to have had an effect on us. We felt very thoughtless whilst while ironing it, ironing it.
And then when mother went and left the home, you know, it was like a divine vision, seeing mother gliding down the stairs as if she was going on a cloud almost, but that's just me trying to put it into words that feeling.
I'm sorry.
Because of the timing.
Yes, the timing. The timing was incredible because, but that I think we leave those details for another time. There was something else happened at that moment.
No, tell us now.
Well, I mean, it's a, it's a diversion.
Is that this boy that used to iron mothers, saris was, um, um, but as a domestic assistant, uh, it first came to sahaja in India and he was very ill because he was working in an, in a factory for with the chemicals for, for make for manufacturing medicine.
So from, from young age, he did that job. We had, he nailed so many chemicals.
He was really very sick and now he could not work.
So mother gave him realization.
And then, uh, mother told him also, I think you better find a different job, you know, but, um, it was not easy for him to find a different job.
I think even his parents, you know, depending on, depended a bit on his income.
Uh, you know, it's very hard to know to find a new career and your job and everything.
So we asked mother, really mother, please, uh, can you give me a job?
You know, I think he must have assumed mother had lots of jobs because size yoga is a big organization and people don't realize that, uh, you know, people don't get paid on jobs going in size yoga.
But you really mother, please, you know, please, can you give me a job?
You know, and mother said, uh, what are the profession would you like to do?
You know, he said, cooking.
Oh, do you know how to cook?
No.
I said, well, I can teach you how to cook.
And mother taught him how to cook professionally, you know, in two weeks, you know, and mother used to be very proud of that, that he learned to cook everything perfectly in two weeks.
You know, only people who can go topless can, you know, learn so much so fast.
And mother was also very proud of strong.
He was, he had become, you have become so strong, you know, he was a vegetarian by the way, and always remained a vegetarian, but still he was so strong.
He was stronger than all of us.
So mother was proud of that, that, you know, how much he improved, you know, while he was there working for mother.
But the only problem is that he still felt very sick with nausea.
If every had to go on a car or on a bus or tube, anything, it's just could not go on a, on transport to get very sick.
So he had gone out that day, you know, and now he was missing and mother knew he's feeling very sick, you know, so mother was very worried about him.
She didn't want to go out for the, for this conference without seeing him first, because he's, you know, she knew that when he gets very sick, because he had to go out to meet some friends or acquaintances.
And it was, it was getting so late and he's still missing and mother, mother knows what people are feeling.
She knew he's feeling very sick and now he has to walk a long, long distance because he's not going to go on a, on a bus or anything because of nausea.
So he has to walk a huge distance.
He's going to be exhausted.
And mother was, mother said, you know, I really don't want to go to this conference now, but it's my duty and I always do.
What's my duty, you know?
So it looks like mother also needed a miracle now.
And that's what happened.
Mother was standing there, all dressed, ready to go and suddenly arrives.
So mother goes and meets him outside the, outside the front entrance immediately.
And, you know, works on him.
You know, this is outside the house on the front door.
And she raises Kundalini, puts it in Bandhan, gives Bandhan on his Navi.
Mother talked to him in Hindi or Marathi.
I don't know what language mother was talking.
And so then he went home.
Mother, you know, suddenly he was looking normal.
He was not looking like a ghost because he was so exhausted of walking and nausea.
He was looking fantastic.
You know what mother can do in a second or two there.
And as mother finished working on him, immediately the limousine arrived.
What a tremendous timing you see.
So mother went to the mother did exactly what she wanted to do to look after this, this boy, you know?
And then the car arrived and she went absolutely perfect timing.
And that's partly why it felt like we knew this is divinely orchestrated this event.
Parking studies.
Yes.
At Shuddhi camps mother was by then going to go to Italy and to Pratistan and she was moving.
She was selling.
In fact, she was selling Shuddhi camps, which was a house and also an ashram.
And so she had to pack everything to, you know, either to Pratistan or to Kebala or keep some of the some stuff.
She was still keeping with her because she was still living there.
She had not yet sold, but it takes a lot of preparation to pack everything to go on a shipping container really.
And there was a lot to do.
Mother was absolutely relaxed about it.
You know, I think most people go crazy.
Oh my God to pack everything, you know, what and mother is so busy doing lots of international tours all the time.
And mother was so relaxed about it as if it's nothing.
This is something so easy.
It's of no importance.
It's easy to do.
So some ladies came to help and there was also plenty of men to help.
And the hardest job was the crockery because the crockery every time we went into the room bringing boxes and more boxes and boxes of crockery and the teacups and plates, you know, we almost broke, you know, you were at danger of breaking everything the way we walk and go and come, you know, and mother used to say, Oh my goodness, we don't want a bull in a China shop, you know, so this was an English saying.
So it was a joke.
So we knew about that.
And then mother said, all right.
I think the boys are going to help me to pack the saris and the ladies can do the crockery on their own.
They don't need supervision.
They can do we need supervision of course.
So mother started the packing a saris and we had to bring lots of suitcases who love saris and open and open of suitcases show the saris to mother and some suitcases would not open.
You have the we had tried everything.
There were four suitcases.
We could not open.
They have a lock with three wheels.
So it's a three digit combination and mother knew and told us the code is 108.
So just try 108 and all the suitcases open except for four because they were old.
They were rusty.
The mechanism is jammed.
Maybe, you know, we tried all numbers, you know, even other combinations.
We tried 777, 111, 000.
They just wouldn't open, you know, someone said, let me see, you know, we had the rest.
We had already played with those wheels and tried to make them lose.
So mother started rubbing the wheels of the suitcase, those wheels, which are the code, the lock, the lock mechanism.
Mother would rub those wheels while talking to us and doing other things, you know, as if she's playing, paying no attention to that, you know, and then she said, okay, you can try now.
And so we would go back, you know, put back the 108 and there you go.
Now it opens.
You see, it's amazing what mother can do with vibrations.
And she opened three suitcases like this that we had tried and tried and tried just by rubbing her hands and the vibrations on those wheels, you know, and then came out the last one could do a four and mother tried the same, but it's just been open, you know?
So we're looking at mother saying, oh my goodness, you know, now it's not working.
So, well, we can get the screwdriver, you know, or a hammer and scissor.
We'll crack this, you know, there's no problem.
We'll get the series out, you know, I said, no, no, no, no, wait, wait.
You know, is there a label?
Oh yes, there's a label.
What does it say?
Kalpana.
Oh, there you go.
See, I'm not meant to open the vibrations, you know, respect all the dharmas and everything, even the vibrations didn't open the suitcase because it was not mother's suitcase.
It was Kalpana's, you know?
So we have a good laugh with this.
But while you were packing the series with mother, mother was talking about the tours because she had been mother's constant, the on a tour and she was updating us about the status of Sahaja Yoga in the world, you know?
So it's not just about packing, packing series mother's talking of all sorts of things to us while you are bringing the series.
And meanwhile, mother is telling the story goes in this box that one goes in that box, you know, and there were lots of different boxes for different types of series.
We didn't know where to put the series.
In fact, only mother knew what the different boxes were, what types of series or whatever.
Or if I go into India or Kebel or staying there in London, in Cambridge, in the shitty camps, we didn't know what we were doing.
We were just bringing series to mother.
And we had to wait, you know, our turn because let's say I was standing there with my hands, you know, open towards the mother and three series of mother on my hands, you know?
And the hands were going very, very cool, very cool, very cool.
You know, it was like we were clearing out with this and then at last mother would say, okay, this sorry goes here.
This one goes there.
Oh, let me see this.
Sorry. Okay.
Don't put it yet.
So mother would look at the sorry then she would show us the side itself beautiful in this pattern.
And this senior, the story of all the sizes, you know, she told us so much about the service and she kept talking that maybe we, you know, we should have a museum, you know, of service.
It's such an important art from India and we could see the salaries are precious because just holding them in our hands, the hands go totally cold, you know, incredible thing.
She knew all the side is, Oh, there were so many sizes.
Oh, this one is from CCP.
You know, you gave me this one.
Let me see.
And she would see it again.
She hadn't seen it for a while.
You know, how beautiful, you know, so many studies that they would, that would, you know, gifts from CCP probably chosen by mother.
So, you know, it's really, although it was a gift from CCP.
Sometimes you would give also on its own without as a surprise without mother choosing the sorry somewhere or select that, you know, not chosen by mother, but chosen by CCP.
But how wonderful mother knew the story of all the sorrys.
She was always showing us for us to enjoy the patterns, the colors, the beauty.
It was another art class, art class really about the sorrys.
And she was saying that, you know, it's worth having a museum of sorrys really.
Yes. And then suddenly another box came, which was not sorrys, you know, it was actually mother's shoes, but we didn't know what it was.
So that box of shoes was also put there for mother to sort out, you know, and I said, Oh no, that's too cold.
That's too cold. Keep it a little bit to the side, you know, it's too cold, you know, and ultimately another person came because they were coming and going to the attic to get the suitcases.
You know, he didn't know what mother said that, you know, it's not sorrys, you know, and again, he brought that box to mother, mother, what do you do with this box?
You know, Oh, all right, let's, let's open it.
So mother opened the lid of that box.
It was shoes, mother's shoes, old, already old, mother was not wearing those.
And the vibrations were so amazing that even mother said, Oh my goodness, this is incredible.
You know, mother was amazed how strong the vibrations were from the box that were coming out and mother stopped the work.
You know, we stopped those.
We put all our sorrys back, the suitcases and mother went into meditation and said, Oh, this is incredible.
You know, what vibrations can you feel this?
You know, so we sat down, we sat down, you know, mother said, you can close your eyes if you want mother also close the rise, close our eyes.
And we went into meditation.
It was unforgettable.
So although there were several days of packing saris with mother, this is the one day I remember because of this meditation.
So packing saris with mother is not a mundane thing, you know, because mother is telling her the whole about our tours or how Sahaj is spreading in the world, what's happening in this country, that country, you know, and giving us so many art lessons with the saris.
And then it ends up, ends up, you know, our hands get totally cleansed while holding those saris on our hands.
And then we have an incredible meditation with mother, which is quite rare because usually we don't close our eyes, you know, in the presence of mother or mother doesn't close her eyes also, not often at least.
And that was a really amazing meditation session with mother that I don't think I will ever forget this.
So now a little story from Carol.
So at the tour, Carol was wearing a sari and again, mother said, Oh, you know, you look so Indian, you look so Indian, you know, well, which is not surprising because she's wearing a sari, but no, no, you know, you really look very Indian mother said to her, how do you explain that?
And for the first time, mother, Carol told mother, mother, actually I was born in India.
Oh, so only now you tell me, but you've been telling me you came from Sheffield.
I've asked you so many times, you tell me you came from Sheffield.
That's because she got realization in Sheffield.
Sometimes you tell me that you came from Brighton.
At the time I've asked you where you came from and you tell me you came from Lewis because she was staying in a town called Lewis, which is also my name by the way.
But she, you know, you tell me you came from Lewis, from Brighton.
And by the way, I knew you don't come from those places because human beings are like flowers or plants, you know, wherever they are born, that's their natural environment.
And it's written, it's inside of them, you know, like a plant, you know, belongs to a place you may move, of course, wherever you may move, but whatever you are, where you are born, it's also written inside you.
So I knew that you were not from Sheffield or Cardiff or Lewis or Brighton, you know, you know, what took you so long to tell me that you were born in India, you know, the fact that you were born in India actually is a great blessing that helped you to find such a very important thing.
So Carol could have told mother that she was actually born in India, but mother knows everything.
This is what's so incredible.
Let me see if I forget any stories here.
Oh, yes. I think last one maybe because on the previous session about saris, it was very mentioned, how slow ashram and mother was mother was also packing a saris into a box and locking it, you know, mother used to you know, all those studies were locked in suitcases or somewhere else in cupboards and drawers.
But the thing is that certain things were disappearing at the house last time.
So there was a thief.
There's no doubt about it.
That was serious, you know, important ceramics or being stolen.
Even such yogis felt some things are missing, you know, lots of things were disappearing.
So mother, some people knew there's a thief here and mother said, don't worry, we'll catch the thief.
You know, we'll catch him, you know, meanwhile.
Meanwhile, you know, if you don't leave valuables lying around, you know, lock them or, you know, because that also helps, you know, you should not, you know, leave things lying around like that, you know, and but I said, don't worry, we'll catch the thief, you know, and they were also running a public
And but I said, don't worry, we'll catch the thief, you know, and they were also running a public meeting next to the ashram.
So new people sometimes will go to ashram, you know, we've got realization, you know, and then when the mother's there and the mother saw the person, okay, she knew this is the thief because the mother knows everything.
So mother challenged him, even if realized that mother knows everything, you know, it's incredible, you know, so he confessed, he confessed.
He confessed and he promised to bring the stuff back, you know, otherwise mother would have to report him to the police, you know, but he confessed, you know, I promised to bring the stuff back, you know, we never heard of him again, but mother knew she can, you know, she can find that she can catch the thief if she wants to.
So there he was, it's a little extra towards that story that Fergie said, you know, when he showed that photo of mother, you know.
I think that's all the stories I was going to say today.
Sorry?
What do you want to say about the ramp?
About?
The ramp?
I can hear.
The lady, the dream?
Oh, yes, you know, I could, you see, maybe if Caroline could show that photograph, which I called it Portuguese holidays, I called it.
The square steps.
Caroline, I don't know if she can hear.
Yeah, I'm listening.
I'm just one of the photographs is called Portuguese holidays.
Yeah.
So throughout my childhood, we always used to spend the holidays in this place, you know, this is a farm and there's a big ramp going from the farm all the way to the to the road to the public road.
This is not in the village is a bit away from the village.
So and in the village, there's always traditionally there has to be a procession of the Virgin Mary processions with Christ, you know, all the traditional processions were inside the village.
So they wouldn't come near our home, which is in a little bit slightly remote place and also a very high place with a big ramp to reach.
But I have this dream in childhood, which was a recurrent dream.
So every year during summer, I would have this dream two or three times.
And in the dream, there's, you know, the sound of a procession, the drums very loud and that wakes me up.
So then I come from the house to see what it is to the beginning of the ramp.
It's a dream.
It's not a real vision, you know, and then the process would come all the way there.
Leading the procession, there was a Divine Lady because she was, you know, moving on the cloud, you know, going up the ramp, you know, and the procession was coming with her playing the music.
Then upon arriving at the end of the ramp, she would say, well, I'm here, you know, you have asked me to come, you prayed for me to come.
So if you want to come join the procession, you know, you are invited to come if you want, you know.
And then everybody would do a prostration to the lady.
And there were some angels throwing some flowers at the feet of the lady.
And then the lady would turn around and go down the ramp again, you know, because now she has to go and meet the people who also, you know, have been calling her or praying for her to come.
And so she came.
So this was a recurrent dream.
It stopped when I became 15, 16 years old, the dream stopped.
So it really is just a childhood dream.
And I'm not saying this is the Virgin Mary because it's just a dream.
I'm not even saying this was Shri Mataji for sure.
But to me, you know, I want to set it aside, you know, as something from childhood.
But that day when mother, you know, was wearing that sari, you know, going to that important function, you know, and I felt mother was just gliding down the steps, you know, as if she was going on a cloud.
That's the only time, you know, the mother brought this memory to me of this recurrent childhood dream that I used to have every summer during holiday.
So that is why I still remember that story of that sari because it brought back something to me, which was something precious, a nice memory from childhood.
Was there any other story?
Well, just to finish, I mean, this is not so important.
If you want to show the last two photos, there's one of our marriage in India.
There you go, Carl also made sure she chose a green sari for me because the green flag may be.
I don't think it's a coincidence again.
But it was one of the saris that mother selected for the bride.
Oh, yes, this is one of the saris selected by mother for the bride, you know, medium price, by the way.
So there were three categories.
Carl took pity on my wallet.
And but the beautiful sari and again, green.
And then there's the last one here of a car by the river on the Indian tour.
That's it. So again, this is one of those.
You can see the white sari with a red border.
These are also saris selected by Srimataji and the little shawl.
This was a gift Srimataji gave to all of us.
Even the man got a slightly different shawl, but you know, we also got a red shawl given by mother.
Everybody got a shawl.
But these are beautiful traditional Indian shawls also with the same patterns,
like the saris and this white sari with a red border.
It's very typical of those saris mother was selecting for the ladies on the tour.
The ones for daily use is not one of the special ones, of course.
But there you are. It's another nice memory.
And I think that's all the stories I have.
There's just one photograph left of Brompton Square.
I think I'll just share it.
Okay.
So this is the place where mother came here to meet her assistant, the domestic assistant, let's call him.
And that's where mother worked on him.
And once she finished working on him, as soon as she finished working on him,
the Delhi Museum arrived and mother's rest was gliding down to the car.
It brought back that vision to me.
So I cannot forget those events, of course.
But that's it. Thank you for your time and patience with me.
That's all the stories I have for today.
Well, thank you so much, Lewis.
It's been wonderful.
It's been absolutely a joy to listen to you and to prayer this evening.
So I'm going to just stop the recording now.